Task Overview
What you'll learn
Meet your client PowerCo - a major gas and electricity utility who is concerned about losing customers
How to interpret the business context
How to break down the problem before you start your data analysis
What you'll do
Determine the client data needed for analysis
Outline the techniques you'll use to investigate your client's problem
Write an email to your Associate Director summarizing your approach
Before we begin
Here are some key facts about this program:

You are working as a Junior Data Scientist at BCG GAMMA
You work within a larger team, where each member has a different role and level of responsibility.
Your team has been assigned a new project for a client called PowerCo
As a Junior Data Scientist, this is an opportunity to get valuable hands-on experience. You’ll work on your programming, problem solving and communication skills - all essential skills for life on the job as a data scientist!

Important note: You’ll need to have an understanding of Python before starting this program. If you do not know Python, you are welcome to give it a try, but it might be a little challenging for you!

First, let’s find out more on being a Data Scientist at BCG GAMMA.
What is a Data Scientist?
What exactly is a Data Scientist?

A Data Scientist works with data to try and deliver value to a business.
But how is that achieved?
Data Science can sometimes overlap with domains such as Data Analysts, Data Engineers and DevOps.
How much the Data Scientists role overlaps with these other roles really depends on the company, but in essence a Data Scientist is generally focused on modeling data to be able to accurately predict an outcome, for example, predicting how likely customers are to leave.
4 core skills are used as a Data Scientist: statistics, mathematics, programming and communication.

Now let’s find out what Data Science looks like at BCG GAMMA.
Key roles and responsibilities of a Data Scientist at BCG GAMMA
BCG GAMMA is transforming businesses using data science to help companies generate competitive advantage. To do this, we typically follow a 5-step methodology:

Business understanding & problem framing: what is the context of this problem and why are they trying to solve it?
 
Exploratory data analysis & data cleaning: what data are we working with, what does it look like and how can we make it better?
 
Feature engineering: can we enrich this dataset using our own expertise or third party information?
 
Modeling and evaluation: can we use this dataset to accurately make predictions? If so, are they reliable?
 
Insights & Recommendations: how we can communicate the value of these predictions by explaining them in a way that matters to the business?


The tasks in this program will be focused on using different parts of this methodology at different times, so you’ll get a taste of the overall process.

It’s a really exciting time to be working with BCG GAMMA as more clients are needing data to drive key decisions. So, let’s check out what case you’ll be working on!
The brief from PowerCo
The Associate Director (AD) of the Data Science team held a team meeting to discuss the client brief. You’ll be working closely with Estelle Altazin, a senior data scientist on your team.

Here are the key takeaways from the meeting:

Your client is PowerCo - a major gas and electricity utility that supplies to small and medium sized enterprises.
The energy market has had a lot of change in recent years and there are more options than ever for customers to choose from.
PowerCo are concerned about their customers leaving for better offers from other energy providers. When a customer leaves to use another service provider, this is called churn.
This is becoming a big issue for PowerCo and they have engaged BCG to help diagnose the reason why their customers are churning.

During the meeting your AD discussed some potential reasons for this churn, one being how “sensitive” the price is. In other words, how much is price a factor in a customer’s choice to stay with or leave PowerCo?

So, now it’s time for you to investigate this hypothesis.


